ref/general/network-hardening.adoc, before:

// Copyright (c) 2020 IBM Corporation and others.
// Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives
// 4.0 International (CC BY-ND 4.0)
//   https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/4.0/
//
// Contributors:
//     IBM Corporation
//
:page-description: Harden your network security to prevent network intrusions.
:seo-title: Network security hardening
:seo-description: Harden your network security to prevent network intrusions.
:page-layout: general-reference
:page-type: general
= Network security hardening

Network intrusions occur when unauthorized users gain access to network activity.
With this access, they can alter traffic and steal network resources.

== Firewalls
Production environments need to run inside a firewall.
It's not recommended to run workloads in the demilitarized zone (DMZ).
The DMZ is an intermediary zone where proxy and web servers run that is located between public and private networking zones.
Typically, your network setup includes two firewalls, a perimeter firewall and a backend firewall.
The perimeter firewall exists between the public zone and the DMZ, and the backend firewall exists between the DMZ and the private zone.
The backend firewall, or overall network design, should limit ingress traffic to trusted addresses and limit egress traffic to the minimum addresses required by the application.

== Security in container environments
In container environments, running either on-premises or in the cloud, applications can be spread across multiple nodes.
It's a best practice to isolate workloads from one another across a cluster of nodes.
When Open Liberty is deployed in container environments, segment network traffic based on users, teams, applications, etc.
Collections of containers, or pods, apportioned by namespace, offer the ability to provide IP and port isolation.
Pods with different namespaces shouldn't be able to interact by default.
For more information about network security in container environments, see the information about network isolation in link:https://www.redhat.com/en/resources/container-security-openshift-cloud-devops-whitepaper[Ten layers of container security].

== TLS connectivity
Open Liberty provides a simple TLS configuration with the link:/docs/ref/feature/#transportSecurity-1.0.html[Transport Security feature].
The Transport Security feature enables the link:/docs/ref/feature/#ssl-1.0.html[SSL feature] to support SSL connections and adds the ability to configure outbound transports.
TLS uses key pairs and signed X.509 certificates to protect HTTP, IIOP, LDAP, IBM MQ, JDBC, and messaging traffic between Open Liberty messaging engines, J2C, and SOAP traffic.
The default TLS config is simple and easy to configure, but it is not suitable for use in production because it generates a self-signed certificate.
The auto-generated certificate is convenient for development purposes, but certificates used in production should be signed by a trusted authority, such as Verisign.

With Open Liberty, ingress proxies are configurable and no proxies are trusted by default.
For protection at the transport level when traffic comes in by proxy, make required Open Liberty servers accessible to only trusted proxies.
Disable non-TLS ports wherever possible.
Exposing only TLS-enabled ports requires careful consideration of the `server.xml` file because some features may automatically enable non-TLS ports.
Disable non-TLS ports by setting them to `-1`, as shown in the following example:

[source,xml]
----
<httpEndpoint id="defaultHttpEndpoint" httpPort="-1" httpsPort="9445" />
----

=== Mutual authentication
Methods of authentication are configurable by application, meaning that applications running on the same server can use different means of authentication.
For example, if two applications are running on an Open Liberty server, one might use client authentication while the other uses basic authentication.
Open Liberty has two modes for client certificate authentication:

* *Supported*: The client might present a TLS certificate, but it is not required.
If the client presents an untrusted certificate, the certificate is ignored.
If the certificate is trusted, it can be used for application authentication.
* *Required*: The client must present a trusted TLS certificate.
If the certificate isn't sent or an untrusted certificate is sent, the connection is rejected.

For production environments, use mutual (2-way) TLS authentication whenever possible.
Mutual authentication is certificate-based authentication for clients.
If you use mutual authentication in conjunction with a proxy, consider using the link:/docs/ref/config/#httpDispatcher.html[`httpDispatcher`] parameter with the `trustedHeaderOrigin` or `trustedSensitiveHeaderOrigin` options.
This parameter permits proxies by using the specified IP addresses to pass along certificate details on behalf of clients:

[source,xml]
----
<httpDispatcher trustedSensitiveHeaderOrigin=“10.20.30.40, 10.20.50.60” />
----

If your Open Liberty deployment does not include any proxies, set the following parameters in the `server.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<webcontainer trusted=“false” /> or
<httpDispatcher trustedHeaderOrigin=“none” />
----

=== LDAP servers
Ensure that any links from the Open Liberty server to LDAP servers are secured by TLS.

The following snippet shows an example of how to enable TLS for an LDAP connection:

[source,xml]
----
<ssl id="ldapSSLConfig" keyStoreRef="ldapTrustStore" trustStoreRef="ldapTrustStore" /> // <1>

<keyStore id="ldapTrustStore" location="ldapTrustStore.jks" type="JKS"
  password="{xor}BQUFbm1sa2o=" />

<ldapRegistry id="MyLdap" realm="SampleLdapRealm"
  host="host.domain.com" port="636" ignoreCase="true" baseDN="o=domain,c=us"
  ldapType="OpenLDAP" idsFilters="myidsfilters"
  sslEnabled="true" // <2>
  sslRef="ldapSSLConfig" /> // <3>
----
<1> Sets the TLS `id`
<2> Enables TLS for the LDAP registry
<3> `sslRef` attribute references the TLS `id`

== LTPA best practices
Lightweight Third-Party Authentication (LTPA) is a single sign-on (SSO) technology that uses cookies or binary tokens for authentication.
For more information about how to use LTPA for SSO, see link:/docs/ref/general/#sso-config-ltpa.html[SSO configuration with LTPA cookies].

There are several measures that you can take to harden your network when you use LTPA with SSO.
By default, LTPA cookies are sent over HTTPS or HTTP connections.
For production purposes, the cookie that carries the LTPA token (`ltpaToken2`) must be protected.
If it's stolen, an intruder can act in place of the authenticated user until the token expires.
Cookies support the `secure` attribute, which tells the browser to send a cookie over HTTPS connections only.
Set the option in the `server.xml` file to require that LTPA cookies are sent over TLS connections:

[source,xml]
----
<webAppSecurity ssoRequiresSSL='true' />
----

It's a security best practice to replace LTPA keys regularly.
Replacing LTPA keys regularly reduces the risk vector in which a bad actor is able to access a copy of a file and decrypt its contents.
To replace the keys, delete the `ltpa.keys` file and wait for the server to automatically regenerate them.
Then, copy the new keys file to the file systems for other servers that share the keys.

In production environments, the cookie for LTPA should be used only for HTTP requests and not for anything else, such as JavaScript applications.
The following example tells browsers to restrict the use of LTPA cookies to only HTTP connections:

[source,xml]
----
<webAppSecurity httpOnlyCookies='true' />
----

You can also use the `cookieHttpOnly` attribute to help prevent cross-site scripting attacks.
When set to `true`, this attribute specifies that session cookies must include the `HttpOnly` field.
Browsers that support the `HttpOnly` field don't allow client-side scripts to access cookies:

[source,xml]
----
<httpSession cookieHttpOnly='true' />
----

== Automated updates
Config updates must be carefully controlled in production environments to reduce the possibility that unknown changes or vulnerabilities are deployed to users.
By default, each server contains a monitored application directory named `/dropins`.
When an application is placed in this directory, the server automatically deploys and starts the application.
If you update config in the `server.xml` file or `/dropins` directory, the server automatically deploys the config changes.

Each server also contains a monitored directory named `/dropins/configDropins` for config snippets.
If you update the config in this directory, the server automatically deploys the config changes.

To ensure that you deploy only explicitly pre-configured applications where their config resides in the `server.xml` file, you can disable monitoring of the `/dropins` directory:

[source,xml]
----
<appliciationMonitor updateTrigger="mbean" dropinsEnabled="false" />
----

You can also disable automatic config updates in the `server.xml` file by using the following config:

[source,xml]
----
<config updateTrigger="mbean" />
----

== Welcome page and headers
For production, you can disable Open Liberty's welcome page.
The welcome page is enabled by default, and accessing the `/` root context displays the Open Liberty homepage.
Disable this homepage by setting the `enableWelcomePage` custom property to `false` in the `server.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<httpDispatcher enableWelcomePage="false" />
----

Open Liberty server headers are also enabled by default.
Because these headers are enabled by default, in certain situations, server information might be returned to browsers or web clients about the type of server that is running.
Setting the `removeServerHeader` custom property to `true` removes server implementation information from HTTP headers:

[source,xml]
----
<httpOptions removeServerHeader="true" />
----

You can disable the _X-Powered-By_ header if you don't want to reveal which server is running.
Setting the `disableXPoweredBy` custom property to `true` disables the _X-Powered-By_ header, which prevents the header from being sent on the HTTP response:

[source,xml]
----
<webContainer disableXPoweredBy="true" />
----

== Session overflow
Restrict the number of sessions that can be created for applications that use in-memory sessions by disabling HTTP session overflow.
Restricting sessions can help prevent denial-of-service attacks in which attackers continually generate new sessions until all JVM memory is exhausted:

[source,xml]
----
<httpSession allowOverflow="false" maxInMemorySessionCount="1000" alwaysEncodeURL="true" cookieSecure="true" cookieHttpOnly="true" />
----

== JMX connector
When you use the IHS web server, you can secure access to the Open Liberty JMX connector for remote administrative services in the web server plug-in by removing or commenting out the following entries:

[source,xml]
----
<!-- <Uri AffinityCookie="JSESSIONID" AffinityURLIdentifier="jsessionid" Name="/ibm/api/*" />
<Uri AffinityCookie="JSESSIONID" AffinityURLIdentifier="jsessionid" Name="/IBMJMXConnectorREST/*" /> -->
----

Commit message:

Updates to network hardening per LC

ref/general/network-hardening.adoc, after:

// Copyright (c) 2020 IBM Corporation and others.
// Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives
// 4.0 International (CC BY-ND 4.0)
//   https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/4.0/
//
// Contributors:
//     IBM Corporation
//
:page-description: Harden your network security to prevent network intrusions.
:seo-title: Network security hardening
:seo-description: Harden your network security to prevent network intrusions.
:page-layout: general-reference
:page-type: general
= Network security hardening

Network intrusions occur when unauthorized users gain access to network activity.
With this access, they can alter traffic and steal network resources.

== Firewalls
Production environments need to run inside a firewall.
It's not recommended to run workloads in the demilitarized zone (DMZ).
The DMZ is an intermediary zone where proxy and web servers run that is located between public and private networking zones.
Typically, your network setup includes two firewalls, a perimeter firewall and a backend firewall.
The perimeter firewall exists between the public zone and the DMZ, and the backend firewall exists between the DMZ and the private zone.
The backend firewall, or overall network design, should limit ingress traffic to trusted addresses and limit egress traffic to the minimum addresses required by the application.

== Security in container environments
In container environments, running either on-premises or in the cloud, applications can be spread across multiple nodes.
It's a best practice to isolate workloads from one another across a cluster of nodes.
When Open Liberty is deployed in container environments, segment network traffic based on users, teams, applications, etc.
Collections of containers, or pods, apportioned by namespace, offer the ability to provide IP and port isolation.
Pods with different namespaces shouldn't be able to interact by default.
For more information about network security in container environments, see the information about network isolation in link:https://www.redhat.com/en/resources/container-security-openshift-cloud-devops-whitepaper[Ten layers of container security].

== TLS connectivity
Open Liberty provides a simple TLS configuration with the link:/docs/ref/feature/#transportSecurity-1.0.html[Transport Security feature].
The Transport Security feature enables the link:/docs/ref/feature/#ssl-1.0.html[SSL feature] to support SSL connections and adds the ability to configure outbound transports.
TLS uses key pairs and signed X.509 certificates to protect HTTP, IIOP, LDAP, IBM MQ, JDBC, and messaging traffic between Open Liberty messaging engines, J2C, and SOAP traffic.
The default TLS config is simple and easy to configure, but it is not suitable for use in production because it generates a self-signed certificate.
The auto-generated certificate is convenient for development purposes, but certificates used in production should be signed by a trusted authority, such as Verisign.

With Open Liberty, ingress proxies are configurable and no proxies are trusted by default.
For protection at the transport level when traffic comes in by proxy, make required Open Liberty servers accessible to only trusted proxies.
Disable non-TLS ports wherever possible.
Exposing only TLS-enabled ports requires careful consideration of the `server.xml` file because some features may automatically enable non-TLS ports.
Disable non-TLS ports by setting them to `-1`, as shown in the following example:

[source,xml]
----
<httpEndpoint id="defaultHttpEndpoint" httpPort="-1" httpsPort="9445" />
----

=== Mutual authentication
For production environments, use mutual (2-way) TLS authentication whenever possible.
Mutual authentication is certificate-based authentication for clients.
Methods of authentication are configurable by application.
For example, one application might use client authentication while the other application uses basic authentication.
Open Liberty has two modes for client certificate authentication:

* *Supported*: The client might present a TLS certificate, but it is not required.
If the client presents an untrusted certificate, the certificate is ignored.
If the certificate is trusted, it can be used for application authentication.
For supported mode, set the link:https://draft-openlibertyio.mybluemix.net/docs/ref/config/#ssl.html[`clientAuthenticationSupported` attribute] to `true` in your TLS config.
* *Required*: The client must present a trusted TLS certificate.
If the certificate isn't sent or an untrusted certificate is sent, the connection is rejected.
For required mode, set the link:https://draft-openlibertyio.mybluemix.net/docs/ref/config/#ssl.html[`clientAuthentication` attribute] to `true` in your TLS config.

If you use mutual authentication in conjunction with a proxy, consider using the link:/docs/ref/config/#httpDispatcher.html[`httpDispatcher`] parameter with the `trustedHeaderOrigin` or `trustedSensitiveHeaderOrigin` options.
This parameter permits proxies by using the specified IP addresses to pass along certificate details on behalf of clients:

[source,xml]
----
<httpDispatcher trustedSensitiveHeaderOrigin=“10.20.30.40, 10.20.50.60” />
----

If your Open Liberty deployment does not include any proxies, set the following parameters in the `server.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<webcontainer trusted=“false” /> or
<httpDispatcher trustedHeaderOrigin=“none” />
----

=== LDAP servers
Ensure that any links from the Open Liberty server to LDAP servers are secured by TLS.

The following snippet shows an example of how to enable TLS for an LDAP connection:

[source,xml]
----
<ssl id="ldapSSLConfig" keyStoreRef="ldapTrustStore" trustStoreRef="ldapTrustStore" /> // <1>

<keyStore id="ldapTrustStore" location="ldapTrustStore.jks" type="JKS"
  password="{xor}BQUFbm1sa2o=" />

<ldapRegistry id="MyLdap" realm="SampleLdapRealm"
  host="host.domain.com" port="636" ignoreCase="true" baseDN="o=domain,c=us"
  ldapType="OpenLDAP" idsFilters="myidsfilters"
  sslEnabled="true" // <2>
  sslRef="ldapSSLConfig" /> // <3>
----
This example configuration does the following things:

<1> Sets the TLS `id`
<2> Enables TLS for the LDAP registry
<3> The `sslRef` attribute references the TLS `id`

== LTPA best practices
Lightweight Third-Party Authentication (LTPA) is a single sign-on (SSO) technology that uses cookies or binary tokens for authentication.
For more information about how to use LTPA for SSO, see link:/docs/ref/general/#sso-config-ltpa.html[SSO configuration with LTPA cookies].

There are several measures that you can take to harden your network when you use LTPA with SSO.
By default, LTPA cookies are sent over HTTPS or HTTP connections.
For production purposes, the cookie that carries the LTPA token (`ltpaToken2`) must be protected.
If it's stolen, an intruder can act in place of the authenticated user until the token expires.
Cookies support the `secure` attribute, which tells the browser to send a cookie over HTTPS connections only.
Set the option in the `server.xml` file to require that LTPA cookies are sent over TLS connections:

[source,xml]
----
<webAppSecurity ssoRequiresSSL='true' />
----

It's a security best practice to replace LTPA keys regularly.
Replacing LTPA keys regularly reduces the risk vector in which a bad actor is able to access a copy of a file and decrypt its contents.
To replace the keys, delete the `ltpa.keys` file and wait for the server to automatically regenerate them.
Then, copy the new keys file to the file systems for other servers that share the keys.

In production environments, the cookie for LTPA should be used only for HTTP requests and not for anything else, such as JavaScript applications.
The following example tells browsers to restrict the use of LTPA cookies to only HTTP connections:

[source,xml]
----
<webAppSecurity httpOnlyCookies='true' />
----

You can also use the `cookieHttpOnly` attribute to help prevent cross-site scripting attacks.
When set to `true`, this attribute specifies that session cookies must include the `HttpOnly` field.
Browsers that support the `HttpOnly` field don't allow client-side scripts to access cookies:

[source,xml]
----
<httpSession cookieHttpOnly='true' />
----

== Automated updates
Config updates must be carefully controlled in production environments to reduce the possibility that unknown changes or vulnerabilities are deployed to users.
You can disable automated config updates so that your production environment isn't changed unless you manually update it.

By default, each server contains a monitored application directory named `/dropins`.
When an application is placed in this directory, the server automatically deploys and starts the application.
If you update config in the `server.xml` file or `/dropins` directory, the server automatically deploys the config changes.

Each server also contains a monitored directory named `/dropins/configDropins` for config snippets.
If you update the config in this directory, the server automatically deploys the config changes.

To ensure that you deploy only explicitly pre-configured applications where their config resides in the `server.xml` file, disable monitoring of the `/dropins` directory:

[source,xml]
----
<appliciationMonitor updateTrigger="mbean" dropinsEnabled="false" />
----

You can also disable automatic config updates in the `server.xml` file by using the following config:

[source,xml]
----
<config updateTrigger="mbean" />
----

== Welcome page and headers
For production, you can disable Open Liberty's welcome page.
The welcome page is enabled by default, and accessing the `/` root context displays the Open Liberty homepage.
Disable this homepage by setting the `enableWelcomePage` custom property to `false` in the `server.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<httpDispatcher enableWelcomePage="false" />
----

Open Liberty server headers are also enabled by default.
Because these headers are enabled by default, in certain situations, information might be returned to browsers or web clients about the server implementation that is running.
Setting the `removeServerHeader` custom property to `true` removes server implementation information from HTTP headers:

[source,xml]
----
<httpOptions removeServerHeader="true" />
----

You can disable the _X-Powered-By_ header if you don’t want to reveal that an Open Liberty server is running.
Setting the `disableXPoweredBy` custom property to `true` disables the _X-Powered-By_ header, which prevents the header from being sent on the HTTP response:

[source,xml]
----
<webContainer disableXPoweredBy="true" />
----

== Session overflow
Restrict the number of sessions that can be created for applications that use in-memory sessions by disabling HTTP session overflow.
Restricting sessions can help prevent denial-of-service attacks in which attackers continually generate new sessions until all JVM memory is exhausted:

[source,xml]
----
<httpSession allowOverflow="false" maxInMemorySessionCount="1000" alwaysEncodeURL="true" cookieSecure="true" cookieHttpOnly="true" />
----

== JMX connector
When you use the IHS web server, you can secure access to the Open Liberty JMX connector for remote administrative services in the web server plug-in by removing or commenting out the following entries:

[source,xml]
----
<!-- <Uri AffinityCookie="JSESSIONID" AffinityURLIdentifier="jsessionid" Name="/ibm/api/*" />
<Uri AffinityCookie="JSESSIONID" AffinityURLIdentifier="jsessionid" Name="/IBMJMXConnectorREST/*" /> -->
----
