ref/feature/spnego/examples.adoc, before:

== Examples

=== Default SPNEGO configuration
Adding the SPNEGO feature automatically enforces a certain minimum configuration.
You don't have to specify a `spnego` element in the `server.xml` file.
If you don't specify a `spnego` element, the following config is implicit:

[source,xml]
----
<spnego
       canonicalHostName="true"
       disableFailOverToAppAuthType="true"
       trimKerberosRealmNameFromPrincipal="true"
       includeClientGSSCredentialInSubject="true" />
----

=== Apply SPNEGO authentication to a subset of HTTP requests
You can filter HTTP requests to require SPNEGO authentication for only certain requests, web applications, hosts, or user agents.
Specify attributes within the link:https://draft-openlibertyio.mybluemix.net/docs/ref/config/#authFilter.html[`authFilter` element] in the `server.xml` file to require SPNEGO authentication for certain requests, as shown in the following example:

[source,xml]
----
<authFilter id="myAuthFilter">
          <host id="myHost" name="example.com" matchType="contains" /> <1>
          <webApp id="myWebApp" name="protectedApp" matchType="equals" /> <1>
</authFilter>

<spnego id="mySpnego"
        includeClientGSSCredentialInSubject="false" <2>
        krb5Config="${server.config.dir}/resources/security/kerberos/krb5.conf" <3>
        krb5Keytab="${server.config.dir}/resources/security/kerberos/krb5.keytab" <3>
        servicePrincipalNames="HTTP/myLibertyMachine.example.com"
        authFilterRef="myAuthFilter" />
</spnego>
----
This example configures the following points for SPNEGO authentication:

<1> SPNEGO authentication is used for any requests received that contain the `example.com` hostname for resources within the `protectedApp` web application.
<2> The client's GSS credentials are not added to the user subject upon successful authentication.
<3> The Kerberos configuration and keytab files used by the server are given specific locations within the server configuration directory instead of within their default locations.

Commit message:

Add links to SPNEGO topic

ref/feature/spnego/examples.adoc, after:

== Examples

The following examples provide feature configuration details for the SPNEGO feature.
If you want to learn more about single sign-on (SSO) with SPNEGO, see link:/docs/ref/general/#sso-config-spnego.html[SSO configuration with SPNEGO].
If you need additional information about how to configure your browser, KDC, and Open Liberty server for SPNEGO, see link:/docs/ref/general/#configuring-spnego-auth.html[Configuring SPNEGO authentication in Open Liberty].

=== Default SPNEGO configuration
Adding the SPNEGO feature automatically enforces a certain minimum configuration.
You don't have to specify a `spnego` element in the `server.xml` file.
If you don't specify a `spnego` element, the following config is implicit:

[source,xml]
----
<spnego
       canonicalHostName="true"
       disableFailOverToAppAuthType="true"
       trimKerberosRealmNameFromPrincipal="true"
       includeClientGSSCredentialInSubject="true" />
----

=== Apply SPNEGO authentication to a subset of HTTP requests
You can filter HTTP requests to require SPNEGO authentication for only certain requests, web applications, hosts, or user agents.
Specify attributes within the link:https://draft-openlibertyio.mybluemix.net/docs/ref/config/#authFilter.html[`authFilter` element] in the `server.xml` file to require SPNEGO authentication for certain requests, as shown in the following example:

[source,xml]
----
<authFilter id="myAuthFilter">
          <host id="myHost" name="example.com" matchType="contains" /> <1>
          <webApp id="myWebApp" name="protectedApp" matchType="equals" /> <1>
</authFilter>

<spnego id="mySpnego"
        includeClientGSSCredentialInSubject="false" <2>
        krb5Config="${server.config.dir}/resources/security/kerberos/krb5.conf" <3>
        krb5Keytab="${server.config.dir}/resources/security/kerberos/krb5.keytab" <3>
        servicePrincipalNames="HTTP/myLibertyMachine.example.com"
        authFilterRef="myAuthFilter" />
</spnego>
----
This example configures the following points for SPNEGO authentication:

<1> SPNEGO authentication is used for any requests received that contain the `example.com` hostname for resources within the `protectedApp` web application.
<2> The client's GSS credentials are not added to the user subject upon successful authentication.
<3> The Kerberos configuration and keytab files used by the server are given specific locations within the server configuration directory instead of within their default locations.
