---
name: Release issue template
about: Docs team only, template for release-tracking issue
title: ''
labels: 'release'
assignees: ''

---

**This issue tracks the progress of the upcoming Open Liberty release during the release cycle. Name the issue after the release ("x.0.0.x release") and add the appropriate version label.**

### Dates

- **Doc freeze date:** 
- **Estimnated GA Date:** 
- 
### Notes
**List any special concerns for this release that are not already tracked in another issue, such as release dependencies, Javadoc updates, support level changes, planned docs refresh, etc.**

### Release checklist
- [ ] If any Jakarta or MicroProfile API docs are updated with this release, work with development to get the updates merged to the `docs-javadoc` repo (1-2 weeks before GA)
- [ ] All issues with a label for this release and any other issues included in the release milestone are completed and closed, with content merged to vNext. (~3 working days before GA)
- [ ] All autogenerated documentation is refreshed on draft (~3 working days before GA)
- [ ] Liberty API/SPI documentation is [updated in the docs-javadoc repo](https://github.com/OpenLiberty/docs-javadoc#preparing-open-liberty-api-and-spi-javadoc-files-for-publication) and verified on staging site. (3 working days before GA)
- [ ] Confirm with the team that docs are frozen and no more updates will be sent to vNext (3 working days before GA).
- [ ] Verify main feature epic statuses to ensure that all targeted features will be included in the release (before closing doc feature issues and again 1-2 working days before GA).
- [ ] [Publish docs to production on GA](https://github.com/OpenLiberty/docs-playbook#publishing-a-new-release-of-open-liberty-docs)
- [ ] If this is a December release, contact the Open LIberty website team to plan for copyright date updates in the January release.
- [ ] Determine if a docs refresh will be needed before the next upcoming release. If so, make a note of the date and leave this issue open until complete. If not, close this issue. 
