intro/microprofile.adoc, before:

:page-layout: intro
:page-description: Microservice architecture is a popular approach for building cloud-native applications in which each capability is developed as an independent service. It enables small, autonomous teams to develop, deploy, and scale their respective services independently.
:page-categories: MicroProfile
:page-permalink: /docs/intro/microprofile.html
:seo-title: MicroProfile simplifies developing cloud-native Java microservices
:seo-description: Microservice architecture is a popular approach for building cloud-native applications in which each capability is developed as an independent service. It enables small, autonomous teams to develop, deploy, and scale their respective services independently.
= MicroProfile simplifies developing cloud-native Java microservices

Microservice architecture is a popular approach for building cloud-native applications in which each capability is developed as an independent service. It enables small, autonomous teams to develop, deploy, and scale their respective services independently.

https://microprofile.io/[Eclipse MicroProfile] is a modular set of technologies designed so that you can write cloud-native Java(TM) microservices. In this introduction, learn how MicroProfile helps you develop and manage cloud-native microservices. Then, follow the Open Liberty MicroProfile guides to gain hands-on experience with MicroProfile so that you can build microservices with Open Liberty.

== Rapidly deploy cloud-native Java microservices at scale

Cloud-native is an industry-wide approach to developing and rapidly deploying applications to the cloud at scale. Cloud-native applications are designed around team-aligned microservices and developed by using agile practices and continuous integration/continuous delivery (CI/CD) to streamline deployment. With a range of vendors providing cloud platforms, open source and open standards are essential enablers for avoiding vendor lock-in.

MicroProfile enables you to develop and deploy cloud-native Java applications as loosely coupled, lightweight services, each representing one unique business function. This approach is modular and makes the application easy to understand, easy to develop, easy to test, and easy to maintain. If you need even more capability in your application, you can add Java EE features too. Add Java EE 8 features if you are using MicroProfile 2.0 or later on Open Liberty, or add Java EE 7 features if you are using MicroProfile 1.x on Open Liberty.

== Production benefits of a Microservice architecture

Writing code more quickly isn't the only reason that MicroProfile is popular. It also helps your applications scale on a more granular level because each service is built and managed independently. The high-traffic services can be individually scaled to efficiently use resources rather than scaling up the entire system. Another benefit is that failures in one service can be isolated from the rest of the system; if a service fails, services that are independent are unaffected while dependent services can employ fault tolerance strategies to prevent the failure from cascading to other services.

Although a microservice architecture provides many benefits, it also introduces new challenges not apparent in traditional monolithic applications. MicroProfile addresses these challenges so that you can easily develop cloud-native applications. These challenges include toleration of service failures, end-to-end security for an authenticated user request flowing through a set of microservices, and problem determination for requests spanning many services.

== Developing RESTful, scalable, observable microservices: MicroProfile layers of functionality

MicroProfile can be organized into three layers of functionality. The bottom layer represents RESTful services, the middle layer is for writing microservices that can be operated and managed at scale, and the top layer contains tools to help you write observable microservices that enable you to detect and diagnose issues.

:!figure-caption:
image::/docs/img/MP-layers-2.png[]


// Bottom layer
==== MicroProfile simplifies developing cloud-native Java microservices

The vast majority of cloud-native microservices are based on REST APIs, making the bottom layer the most essential. At its foundation, MicroProfile provides a set of technologies that make developing and using REST APIs easy. MicroProfile takes a small set of Java EE APIs -- JAX-RS, CDI, JSON-B, and JSON-P -- and augments them with a simple type-safe REST client API, making it easy to consume REST services. MicroProfile Reactive Streams Operators is the enabling technology for MicroProfile reactive programming for microservices. This feature enables creation and manipulation of reactive streams by bundling a Reactive Streams API together with a set of standard operators that apply to streams.

===== Build REST services
The JAX-RS, CDI, JSON-B, and JSON-P Java EE technologies provide the base for MicroProfile. If you're new to Java EE and MicroProfile, this is a good place to start. JAX-RS is a Java API that allows you to build REST APIs by creating resource classes and adding appropriate annotations to create the necessary web endpoints. Context and Dependency Injection (CDI) provides objects with the dependencies that they need through the `@Inject` annotation rather than directly creating an object or finding them using a factory. JSON-P and JSON-B make it easy to automatically serialize and deserialize classes to and from JSON.

===== Consuming a REST service with type-safe Java
MicroProfile Rest Client provides a type-safe approach for invoking REST services over HTTP. This API greatly simplifies the client-side API as defined by JAX-RS. MicroProfile Rest Client handles the communication between the client and service. You only need to define and annotate an interface that describes the actions that you need to perform on a REST resource. An implementation of this interface is automatically generated for you when CDI is used to inject your client into a dependent class.

===== Implement reactive programming for microservices
<<<<<<< HEAD:intro/microprofile.adoc
MicroProfile Reactive Streams Operators provides a way to implement publish/subscribe pipelines that provide flow control and elegant error handling for asynchronous data streams. This implementation enables the processing of streams of data without publishers overwhelming downstream subscribers. Reactive Streams Operators can increase efficiency under potentially overloading conditions by using a ticketing system that creates 'back pressure' between the publisher and subscriber. Because you can directly connect publishers and subscribers regardless of underlying technology, Reactive Streams Operators serves as an abstraction that can efficiently bind together different technologies.
=======
MicroProfile Reactive Streams Operators provides a way to implement publish/subscribe pipelines that provide flow control and elegant error handling for asynchronous data streams. This implementation enables the processing of streams of data without publishers overwhelming downstream subscribers. Reactive Streams Operators can increase efficiency under potentially overloading conditions by using a ticketing system that creates 'back pressure' between the publisher and subscriber. Because you can directly connect publishers and subscribers regardless of underlying technology, Reactive Streams Operators serves as an abstraction that can efficiently bind together different technologies. 
>>>>>>> draft:intro/microprofile.adoc


// Middle layer
==== MicroProfile simplifies scaling your organization

Handling hundreds of autonomous, collaborating, and frequently evolving services introduces a number of new challenges.  These challenges include, for example, documenting and sharing APIs across teams, propagating security across services, handling network or service failures, and continuously integrating and deploying service updates. The middle layer of MicroProfile features provide a number of APIs to simplify these tasks.

===== Document your REST APIs
MicroProfile OpenAPI provides a Java API for the OpenAPI specification that you can use to expose API documentation for your REST APIs.  You can natively produce OpenAPI documents from your JAX-RS applications. OpenAPI is a standardization of https://swagger.io/blog/difference-between-swagger-and-openapi/[the Swagger specification].

===== Handle unexpected failures in your microservices
MicroProfile Fault Tolerance provides an API and annotations for building robust behavior to cope with unexpected failures in the service you depend on. Aspects of fault tolerance include timeouts, retries, fallbacks, bulkhead processing, and circuit breakers.

===== Authentication and role-based access control
MicroProfile JSON Web Token (JWT) provides for interoperable authentication and role-based access control for your services.  It allows an authenticated JWT token to be shared across multiple microservices even if these services are running on multiple vendor implementations. It also allows access to microservice operations to be controlled based on user and role information passed within the JWT token.

===== Externalize configuration to improve portability
MicroProfile Config externalizes configuration from the application to improve portability of the application. A core principle is to be able to override configuration at deployment time using system properties and environment variables. This means you can build your microservice once and deploy it many times through your CI/CD pipeline by changing the configuration for each deployment.


// Top layer
==== MicroProfile helps you write observable microservices

Handling hundreds of microservices requires a strong operations focus. If the system is beginning to exhibit problems, how do you track down the root cause when a request might span tens or hundreds of services?  How can you tell which service is not performing well, or understand the journey a request took through those microservices? The top layer of the MicroProfile feature set helps you answer these questions. It provides APIs to help you understand the health of services, how they're performing, and how requests are flowing through them.

===== Determine a microservice's availability
MicroProfile Health Check provides a common REST endpoint format to determine whether a microservice is healthy or not. Health can be determined by the service itself and might be based on the availability of necessary resources (for example, a database) and services.  The service itself might be running but considered unhealthly if the things it requires for normal operation are unavailable.  The Health Check endpoints are also designed to be easily integrated into Kubernetes liveness and readiness probes.

===== Monitor a microservice's telemetry data
MicroProfile Metrics provides common REST endpoints for monitoring the telemetry data of a running microservice, similar in nature to JMX, but a much simpler API that uses JAX-RS.  Both built-in and application-defined metrics are accessible, with the output in either JSON or Prometheus text formats. This API provides more extensive detail than the simple up and down reporting provided by MicroProfile Health.

===== Enable distributed tracing of your microservices
MicroProfile OpenTracing allows services to easily participate in a distributed tracing environment.  OpenTracing defines behaviors and an API for accessing an http://opentracing.io/[OpenTracing]-compliant Tracer object within your microservice.  These trace logs can then be consumed by a third-party distributed tracing facility such as https://zipkin.io/[Zipkin] or https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger[Jaeger].

== Where to next?

Now that you’ve seen the tools that MicroProfile provides for creating and managing microservices, you’re probably itching to try them out yourself! Check out the https://openliberty.io/guides/?search=MicroProfile&key=tag[MicroProfile guides] written by our team. Your next project will be ready to launch in no time!

Commit message:

mp-intro-links
add links to guides

intro/microprofile.adoc, after:

:page-layout: intro
:page-description: Microservice architecture is a popular approach for building cloud-native applications in which each capability is developed as an independent service. It enables small, autonomous teams to develop, deploy, and scale their respective services independently.
:page-categories: MicroProfile
:page-permalink: /docs/intro/microprofile.html
:seo-title: MicroProfile simplifies developing cloud-native Java microservices
:seo-description: Microservice architecture is a popular approach for building cloud-native applications in which each capability is developed as an independent service. It enables small, autonomous teams to develop, deploy, and scale their respective services independently.
= MicroProfile simplifies developing cloud-native Java microservices

Microservice architecture is a popular approach for building cloud-native applications in which each capability is developed as an independent service. It enables small, autonomous teams to develop, deploy, and scale their respective services independently.

https://microprofile.io/[Eclipse MicroProfile] is a modular set of technologies designed so that you can write cloud-native Java(TM) microservices. In this introduction, learn how MicroProfile helps you develop and manage cloud-native microservices. Then, follow the Open Liberty MicroProfile guides to gain hands-on experience with MicroProfile so that you can build microservices with Open Liberty.

== Rapidly deploy cloud-native Java microservices at scale

Cloud-native is an industry-wide approach to developing and rapidly deploying applications to the cloud at scale. Cloud-native applications are designed around team-aligned microservices and developed by using agile practices and continuous integration/continuous delivery (CI/CD) to streamline deployment. With a range of vendors providing cloud platforms, open source and open standards are essential enablers for avoiding vendor lock-in.

MicroProfile enables you to develop and deploy cloud-native Java applications as loosely coupled, lightweight services, each representing one unique business function. This approach is modular and makes the application easy to understand, easy to develop, easy to test, and easy to maintain. If you need even more capability in your application, you can add Java EE features too. Add Java EE 8 features if you are using MicroProfile 2.0 or later on Open Liberty, or add Java EE 7 features if you are using MicroProfile 1.x on Open Liberty.

== Production benefits of a Microservice architecture

Writing code more quickly isn't the only reason that MicroProfile is popular. It also helps your applications scale on a more granular level because each service is built and managed independently. The high-traffic services can be individually scaled to efficiently use resources rather than scaling up the entire system. Another benefit is that failures in one service can be isolated from the rest of the system; if a service fails, services that are independent are unaffected while dependent services can employ fault tolerance strategies to prevent the failure from cascading to other services.

Although a microservice architecture provides many benefits, it also introduces new challenges not apparent in traditional monolithic applications. MicroProfile addresses these challenges so that you can easily develop cloud-native applications. These challenges include toleration of service failures, end-to-end security for an authenticated user request flowing through a set of microservices, and problem determination for requests spanning many services.

== Developing RESTful, scalable, observable microservices: MicroProfile layers of functionality

MicroProfile can be organized into three layers of functionality. The bottom layer represents RESTful services, the middle layer is for writing microservices that can be operated and managed at scale, and the top layer contains tools to help you write observable microservices that enable you to detect and diagnose issues.

:!figure-caption:
image::/docs/img/MP-layers-2.png[]


// Bottom layer
==== MicroProfile simplifies developing cloud-native Java microservices

The vast majority of cloud-native microservices are based on REST APIs, making the bottom layer the most essential. At its foundation, MicroProfile provides a set of technologies that make developing and using REST APIs easy. MicroProfile takes a small set of Java EE APIs -- JAX-RS, CDI, JSON-B, and JSON-P -- and augments them with a simple type-safe REST client API, making it easy to consume REST services. MicroProfile Reactive Streams Operators is the enabling technology for MicroProfile reactive programming for microservices. This feature enables creation and manipulation of reactive streams by bundling a Reactive Streams API together with a set of standard operators that apply to streams.

===== Build REST services
The JAX-RS, CDI, JSON-B, and JSON-P Java EE technologies provide the base for MicroProfile. If you're new to Java EE and MicroProfile, this is a good place to start. JAX-RS is a Java API that allows you to build REST APIs by creating resource classes and adding appropriate annotations to create the necessary web endpoints. Context and Dependency Injection (CDI) provides objects with the dependencies that they need through the `@Inject` annotation rather than directly creating an object or finding them using a factory. JSON-P and JSON-B make it easy to automatically serialize and deserialize classes to and from JSON.

*Try it out:* Learn how to create a REST service with JAX-RS, JSON-P, and Open Liberty in our interactive guide to link:/guides/rest-intro[Creating a RESTful web service].

===== Consuming a REST service with type-safe Java
MicroProfile Rest Client provides a type-safe approach for invoking REST services over HTTP. This API greatly simplifies the client-side API as defined by JAX-RS. MicroProfile Rest Client handles the communication between the client and service. You only need to define and annotate an interface that describes the actions that you need to perform on a REST resource. An implementation of this interface is automatically generated for you when CDI is used to inject your client into a dependent class.

*Try it out:* Learn how to use MicroProfile Rest Client to invoke RESTful microservices over HTTP in a type-safe way in our interactive guide to link:/guides/microprofile-rest-client[Consuming RESTful services with template interfaces].

===== Implement reactive programming for microservices
MicroProfile Reactive Streams Operators provides a way to implement publish/subscribe pipelines that provide flow control and elegant error handling for asynchronous data streams. This implementation enables the processing of streams of data without publishers overwhelming downstream subscribers. Reactive Streams Operators can increase efficiency under potentially overloading conditions by using a ticketing system that creates 'back pressure' between the publisher and subscriber. Because you can directly connect publishers and subscribers regardless of underlying technology, Reactive Streams Operators serves as an abstraction that can efficiently bind together different technologies.


// Middle layer
==== MicroProfile simplifies scaling your organization

Handling hundreds of autonomous, collaborating, and frequently evolving services introduces a number of new challenges.  These challenges include, for example, documenting and sharing APIs across teams, propagating security across services, handling network or service failures, and continuously integrating and deploying service updates. The middle layer of MicroProfile features provide a number of APIs to simplify these tasks.

===== Document your REST APIs
MicroProfile OpenAPI provides a Java API for the OpenAPI specification that you can use to expose API documentation for your REST APIs.  You can natively produce OpenAPI documents from your JAX-RS applications. OpenAPI is a standardization of https://swagger.io/blog/difference-between-swagger-and-openapi/[the Swagger specification].

*Try it out:* Explore how to document and filter RESTful APIs by using MicroProfile OpenAPI in our interactive guide to link:/guides/microprofile-openapi[Documenting RESTful APIs].

===== Handle unexpected failures in your microservices
MicroProfile Fault Tolerance provides an API and annotations for building robust behavior to cope with unexpected failures in the service you depend on. Aspects of fault tolerance include timeouts, retries, fallbacks, bulkhead processing, and circuit breakers.

*Try it out:* Explore how to manage the impact of failures by using MicroProfile Fault Tolerance in our interactive guide to link:/guides/microprofile-fallback[Building fault-tolerant microservices with the @Fallback annotation].

===== Authentication and role-based access control
MicroProfile JSON Web Token (JWT) provides for interoperable authentication and role-based access control for your services.  It allows an authenticated JWT token to be shared across multiple microservices even if these services are running on multiple vendor implementations. It also allows access to microservice operations to be controlled based on user and role information passed within the JWT token.

*Try it out:* Explore how to control user and role access to microservices with MicroProfile JWT in our interactive guide to link:/guides/microprofile-jwt[Securing microservices with JSON Web Tokens].

===== Externalize configuration to improve portability
MicroProfile Config externalizes configuration from the application to improve portability of the application. A core principle is to be able to override configuration at deployment time using system properties and environment variables. This means you can build your microservice once and deploy it many times through your CI/CD pipeline by changing the configuration for each deployment.

*Try it out:* Learn how to provide external configuration to microservices using MicroProfile Config in our interactive guide to link:/guides/microprofile-config[Configuring microservices].

// Top layer
==== MicroProfile helps you write observable microservices

Handling hundreds of microservices requires a strong operations focus. If the system is beginning to exhibit problems, how do you track down the root cause when a request might span tens or hundreds of services?  How can you tell which service is not performing well, or understand the journey a request took through those microservices? The top layer of the MicroProfile feature set helps you answer these questions. It provides APIs to help you understand the health of services, how they're performing, and how requests are flowing through them.

===== Determine a microservice's availability
MicroProfile Health Check provides a common REST endpoint format to determine whether a microservice is healthy or not. Health can be determined by the service itself and might be based on the availability of necessary resources (for example, a database) and services.  The service itself might be running but considered unhealthly if the things it requires for normal operation are unavailable.  The Health Check endpoints are also designed to be easily integrated into Kubernetes liveness and readiness probes.

*Try it out:* Explore how to report and check the health of a microservice with MicroProfile Health in our interactive guide to link:/guides/microprofile-health[Adding health reports to microservices].

===== Monitor a microservice's telemetry data
MicroProfile Metrics provides common REST endpoints for monitoring the telemetry data of a running microservice, similar in nature to JMX, but a much simpler API that uses JAX-RS.  Both built-in and application-defined metrics are accessible, with the output in either JSON or Prometheus text formats. This API provides more extensive detail than the simple up and down reporting provided by MicroProfile Health.

*Try it out:* Explore how to provide system and application metrics from a microservice with MicroProfile Metrics in our interactive guide to link:/guides/microprofile-metrics[Providing metrics from a microservice].

===== Enable distributed tracing of your microservices
MicroProfile OpenTracing allows services to easily participate in a distributed tracing environment.  OpenTracing defines behaviors and an API for accessing an http://opentracing.io/[OpenTracing]-compliant Tracer object within your microservice.  These trace logs can then be consumed by a third-party distributed tracing facility such as https://zipkin.io/[Zipkin] or https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger[Jaeger].

*Try it out:* Explore how to enable and customize tracing of JAX-RS and non-JAX-RS methods by using MicroProfile OpenTracing in our interactive guide to link:/guides/microprofile-opentracing[Enabling distributed tracing in microservices].

== Where to next?

Now that you’ve seen the tools that MicroProfile provides for creating and managing microservices, you’re probably itching to try them out yourself! Check out the https://openliberty.io/guides/?search=MicroProfile&key=tag[MicroProfile guides] written by our team. Your next project will be ready to launch in no time!
