ref/config/domainResolver.adoc, before:

= +SIP Domain Resolver+ (+domainResolver+)
:linkcss: 
:page-layout: config
:nofooter: 

+Configuration for the SIP domain resolver+

[cols="a,a,a,a",width="100%"]
|===
|Name|Type|Default|Description

|+addTtl+

|boolean

|+false+

|+Add an IBMTTL parameter to the SIP URI.+

|+dnsAllowedFailures+

|int

|+5+

|+The number of allowed DNS lookup failures for the DNS failover mechanism.+

|+dnsAutoResolve+

|boolean

|+false+

|+Resolve domain names automatically.+

|+dnsEdns+

|* +N+
* +Y+


|+Y+

|+Defines the transport protocol for DNS lookup to resolve RFC 3263 SIP URIs. If set to Y, UDP is used. If set to N, TCP is used.+

|+dnsRequestCacheTimeoutMin+

|A period of time with minute precision

|+10m+

|+The minimum time in minutes after which cached DNS queries time out. Specify a positive integer followed by a unit of time, which can be hours (h) or minutes (m). For example, specify 30 minutes as 30m. You can include multiple values in a single entry. For example, 1h30m is equivalent to 90 minutes.+

|+dnsSingleQueryTimeoutSec+

|A period of time with second precision

|+5s+

|+The number of seconds after which a single query times out for the DNS failover mechanism. Specify a positive integer followed by a unit of time, which can be hours (h), minutes (m), or seconds (s). For example, specify 30 seconds as 30s. You can include multiple values in a single entry. For example, 1m30s is equivalent to 90 seconds.+

|+dnsUdpPayloadSize+

|short +
Min: +512+ +
 +
Max: +32767+ +


|+1280+

|+The UDP payload size in bytes for the DNS resolver service.+

|+dnsWindowSizeInterval+

|int

|+10+

|+The resolver service window size interval for the DNS failover mechanism.+

|+dnsWindowSizeMin+

|int

|+600+

|+The minimum window size for the DNS failover mechanism.+
|===
[#+dnsServers+]*dnsServers*

+Allows a SIP URI to be resolved through DNS into the IP address, port, and transport protocol. The value is a String that contains exactly one or two address and port tuples, where two tuples are separated by a space.+

Commit message:

Move child element config into table.
This commit updates the asciidoc to put information about config that
appears as child text nodes into the attributes table. The generator
code is elsewhere so this is just for a review of content prior to
delivery of the generator updates.

ref/config/domainResolver.adoc, after:

= +SIP Domain Resolver+ (+domainResolver+)
:linkcss: 
:page-layout: config
:nofooter: 

+Configuration for the SIP domain resolver+

[cols="a,a,a,a",width="100%"]
|===
|Name|Type|Default|Description

|+addTtl+

|boolean +


|+false+

|+Add an IBMTTL parameter to the SIP URI.+

|+dnsAllowedFailures+

|int +


|+5+

|+The number of allowed DNS lookup failures for the DNS failover mechanism.+

|+dnsAutoResolve+

|boolean +


|+false+

|+Resolve domain names automatically.+

|+dnsEdns+

|* +N+
* +Y+


|+Y+

|+Defines the transport protocol for DNS lookup to resolve RFC 3263 SIP URIs. If set to Y, UDP is used. If set to N, TCP is used.+

|+dnsRequestCacheTimeoutMin+

|A period of time with minute precision +


|+10m+

|+The minimum time in minutes after which cached DNS queries time out. Specify a positive integer followed by a unit of time, which can be hours (h) or minutes (m). For example, specify 30 minutes as 30m. You can include multiple values in a single entry. For example, 1h30m is equivalent to 90 minutes.+

|+dnsServers+

|string +
This is specified as a child element rather than as an XML attribute (maximum occurrences +2++)++.+ +


|

|+Allows a SIP URI to be resolved through DNS into the IP address, port, and transport protocol. The value is a String that contains exactly one or two address and port tuples, where two tuples are separated by a space.+

|+dnsSingleQueryTimeoutSec+

|A period of time with second precision +


|+5s+

|+The number of seconds after which a single query times out for the DNS failover mechanism. Specify a positive integer followed by a unit of time, which can be hours (h), minutes (m), or seconds (s). For example, specify 30 seconds as 30s. You can include multiple values in a single entry. For example, 1m30s is equivalent to 90 seconds.+

|+dnsUdpPayloadSize+

|short +
Min: +512+ +
Max: +32767+ +


|+1280+

|+The UDP payload size in bytes for the DNS resolver service.+

|+dnsWindowSizeInterval+

|int +


|+10+

|+The resolver service window size interval for the DNS failover mechanism.+

|+dnsWindowSizeMin+

|int +


|+600+

|+The minimum window size for the DNS failover mechanism.+
|===
