ref/config/jpa.adoc, before:

= +JPA Container+ (+jpa+)
:linkcss: 
:page-layout: config
:nofooter: 

+Configuration properties for the Java Persistence API container.+

[cols="a,a,a,a",width="100%"]
|===
|Name|Type|Default|Description

|+defaultJtaDataSourceJndiName+

|string

|

|+Default Java™ Transaction API (JTA) data source JNDI name to be used by applications running in this server. By default, data sources are JTA. Only data sources that are transactional are allowed in this field.+

|+defaultNonJtaDataSourceJndiName+

|string

|

|+Default non-transactional data source JNDI name to be used by applications running in this server. Only data sources that have been marked as non-transactional are allowed in this field.+

|+defaultPersistenceProvider+

|string

|

|+Default persistence provider class name. If this property is not specified, the default provider is dependent on which JPA feature is enabled.+

|+entityManagerPoolCapacity+

|int

|+-1+

|+EntityManager pool capacity per PersistenceContext reference. The minimum is 0 and the maximum is 500.+

|+ignoreDataSourceErrors+

|boolean

|

|+If true, errors that occur while attempting to lookup a data source specified by the &lt;jta-data-source&gt; or &lt;non-jta-data-source&gt; elements in the persistence.xml file are reported and ignored, which allows the persistence provider to determine a default data source. If false, the errors are propagated to the persistence provider so that the errors can be diagnosed more easily, but misconfigured applications might not work. By default, this property is true if JPA 2.0 is enabled and false otherwise.+
|===
[#+excludedApplication+]*excludedApplication*

+An application to be excluded from JPA processing.+

Commit message:

Move child element config into table.
This commit updates the asciidoc to put information about config that
appears as child text nodes into the attributes table. The generator
code is elsewhere so this is just for a review of content prior to
delivery of the generator updates.

ref/config/jpa.adoc, after:

= +JPA Container+ (+jpa+)
:linkcss: 
:page-layout: config
:nofooter: 

+Configuration properties for the Java Persistence API container.+

[cols="a,a,a,a",width="100%"]
|===
|Name|Type|Default|Description

|+defaultJtaDataSourceJndiName+

|string +


|

|+Default Java™ Transaction API (JTA) data source JNDI name to be used by applications running in this server. By default, data sources are JTA. Only data sources that are transactional are allowed in this field.+

|+defaultNonJtaDataSourceJndiName+

|string +


|

|+Default non-transactional data source JNDI name to be used by applications running in this server. Only data sources that have been marked as non-transactional are allowed in this field.+

|+defaultPersistenceProvider+

|string +


|

|+Default persistence provider class name. If this property is not specified, the default provider is dependent on which JPA feature is enabled.+

|+entityManagerPoolCapacity+

|int +


|+-1+

|+EntityManager pool capacity per PersistenceContext reference. The minimum is 0 and the maximum is 500.+

|+excludedApplication+

|string +
This is specified as a child element rather than as an XML attribute+.+ +


|

|+An application to be excluded from JPA processing.+

|+ignoreDataSourceErrors+

|boolean +


|

|+If true, errors that occur while attempting to lookup a data source specified by the &lt;jta-data-source&gt; or &lt;non-jta-data-source&gt; elements in the persistence.xml file are reported and ignored, which allows the persistence provider to determine a default data source. If false, the errors are propagated to the persistence provider so that the errors can be diagnosed more easily, but misconfigured applications might not work. By default, this property is true if JPA 2.0 is enabled and false otherwise.+
|===
