ref/commands/server/server-debug.adoc, before:

//
// Copyright (c) 2018 IBM Corporation and others.
// Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives
// 4.0 International (CC BY-ND 4.0)
//   https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/4.0/
//
// Contributors:
//     IBM Corporation
//
// Example title: Creating a RESTful web service
:page-layout: server-command
:page-type: command
= server debug command

Starts the named Open Liberty server in debug mode.

Runs the named server in the console foreground after a debugger connects to the debug port.

//See also:

//* Equivalent command for Maven.
//* Equivalent command for Gradle.
//* Start an Open Liberty server in the foreground.


== Syntax

Run the command from `path_to_liberty/bin`.

----
server package serverName
----

serverName::
The name of the server to run the command against. If no server is specified, a server called `defaultServer` is automatically created to run the command against.

The default port is `7777`. You can use the `WLP_DEBUG_ADDRESS` variable to specify an alternative port.

== Usage

To start the `myserver` server in debug mode:
----
server debug myserver
----

== See also

link:server-stop.html[server stop]


// Include server script exit codes
include::server-exitcodes.adoc[]

// Include description of server process
include::server-serverprocess.adoc[]



// DO NO CREATE ANYMORE SECTIONS AT THIS POINT
// Related guides will be added in automatically here if you included them in ":page-related-guides"

Commit message:

Updates to server command topics

ref/commands/server/server-debug.adoc, after:

//
// Copyright (c) 2018 IBM Corporation and others.
// Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives
// 4.0 International (CC BY-ND 4.0)
//   https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/4.0/
//
// Contributors:
//     IBM Corporation
//
// Example title: Creating a RESTful web service
:page-layout: server-command
:page-type: command
= server debug command

Starts the named Open Liberty server in debug mode.

Runs the named server in the console foreground after a debugger connects to the debug port.

//  See also:
//* Equivalent command for Maven.
//* Equivalent command for Gradle.
//* Start an Open Liberty server in the foreground.

== Usage examples

To start the `myserver` server in debug mode:

----
server debug myserver
----

== Syntax

Run the command from `path_to_liberty/bin`.

----
server package serverName
----

serverName::
The name of the server to run the command against. If no server is specified, a server called `defaultServer` is automatically created to run the command against.

The default port is `7777`. You can use the `WLP_DEBUG_ADDRESS` variable to specify an alternative port.

== See also

* link:server-stop.html[server stop]

== Exit codes

The following exit codes are available for the `server debug` command and the equivalent executable JAR file `ws-server.jar`:

0::
    OK. 0 indicates successful completion of the requested operation.
1::
    1 indicates invocation of a redundant operation, such as starting a started server or stopping a stopper server. 1 might also be returned if the JVM options that were used are not valid.
2::
    2 indicates that the server does not exist.
>=20::
    Exit codes greater than or equal to 20 indicate that an error occurred while performing the request. Messages are printed and captured in log files with more information about the error.
