ref/commands/server/server-run.adoc, before:

//
// Copyright (c) 2018 IBM Corporation and others.
// Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives
// 4.0 International (CC BY-ND 4.0)
//   https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/4.0/
//
// Contributors:
//     IBM Corporation
//
:page-layout: server-command
:page-type: command
= server run command

Starts the named Open Liberty server as a foreground process.

To stop a server in the foreground, just press CTRL + C in the terminal to end the process.


== Syntax

Run the command from `path_to_liberty/bin`.

----
server run serverName
----

Where:

serverName::
The name of the server to run the command against. If no server is specified, a server called `defaultServer` is automatically created to run the command against.


== Usage

Start `myserver` server in the foreground:
----
server run myserver
----


== See also

* link:server-stop.html[server stop]
* link:server-start.html[server start]


// Include server script exit codes
include::server-exitcodes.adoc[]

// Include description of server process
include::server-serverprocess.adoc[]

Commit message:

Updates to server command topics

ref/commands/server/server-run.adoc, after:

//
// Copyright (c) 2018 IBM Corporation and others.
// Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives
// 4.0 International (CC BY-ND 4.0)
//   https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/4.0/
//
// Contributors:
//     IBM Corporation
//
:page-layout: server-command
:page-type: command
= server run command

Starts the named Open Liberty server as a foreground process.

To stop a server in the foreground, press CTRL + C in the terminal to end the process.

== Usage examples

Start the `myserver` server in the foreground:

----
server run myserver
----

== Syntax

Run the command from `path_to_liberty/bin`.

----
server run serverName
----

serverName::
The name of the server to run the command against. If no server is specified, a server called `defaultServer` is automatically created to run the command against.

== See also

* link:server-start.html[server start]
* link:server-stop.html[server stop]

== Exit codes

The following exit codes are available for the `server run` command and the equivalent executable JAR file `ws-server.jar`:

0::
    OK. 0 indicates successful completion of the requested operation.
1::
    1 indicates invocation of a redundant operation, such as starting a started server or stopping a stopper server. 1 might also be returned if the JVM options that were used are not valid.
2::
    2 indicates that the server does not exist.
>=20::
    Exit codes greater than or equal to 20 indicate that an error occurred while performing the request. Messages are printed and captured in log files with more information about the error.
