modules/reference/pages/metrics-1-dif.adoc, before:

// Copyright (c) 2019 IBM Corporation and others.
// Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives
// 4.0 International (CC BY-ND 4.0)
//   https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/4.0/
//
// Contributors:
//     IBM Corporation
//
:page-description:
:seo-title: Differences between MicroProfile Metrics 1.0 and 2.0 - openliberty.io
:seo-description:
:page-layout: general-reference
:page-type: general
= Differences between MicroProfile Metrics 1.0 and 2.0

The xref:ROOT:metrics-list.adoc[metrics reference list] includes all the metrics that are available for Open Liberty.

Some metric names and types changed between MicroProfile Metrics 1.1 and MicroProfile Metrics 2.x, so the following table lists the xref:feature/mpMetrics-2.2.adoc[MicroProfile Metrics 2.2] metric names and the corresponding xref:feature/mpMetrics-1.1.adoc[MicroProfile Metrics 1.1] metric names. It also lists the corresponding Prometheus names and metric types:
{empty} +

[%header,cols="9,9,2,9,9,2"]
|===

|mpMetrics-1.1 name
|mpMetrics-1.1 Prometheus name(s)
|mpMetrics-1.1 type
|mpMetrics-2.x name
|mpMetrics-2.x Prometheus name(s)
|mpMetrics-2.x type

|classloader.currentLoadedClasses.count
|base:classloader_current_loaded_class_count
|Counter
|classloader.loadedClasses.count
|base_classloader_loadedClasses_count
|Gauge

|classloader.totalLoadedClasses.count
|base:classloader_total_loaded_class_count
|Counter
|classloader.loadedClasses.total
|base_classloader_loadedClasses_total
|Counter

|classloader.totalUnloadedClasses.count
|base:classloader_total_unloaded_class_count
|Counter
|classloader.unloadedClasses.total
|base_classloader_unloadedClasses_total
|Counter

|connectionpool.<datasourceName>.connectionHandles
|vendor:connectionpool_<dataSourceName>_connection_handles
|Gauge
|connectionpool.connectionHandles{datasource=<datasourceName>}
|vendor_connectionpool_connectionHandles{datasource=<dataSourceName>}
|Gauge

|connectionpool.<datasourceName>.create.total
|vendor:connectionpool_<dataSourceName>_create_total
|Counter
|connectionpool.create.total{datasource=<datasourceName>}
|vendor_connectionpool_create_total{datasource=<dataSourceName>}
|Counter

|connectionpool.<datasourceName>.destroy.total
|vendor:connectionpool_<dataSourceName>_destroy_total
|Counter
|connectionpool.destroy.total{datasource=<datasourceName>}
|vendor_connectionpool_destroy_total{datasource=<dataSourceName>}
|Counter

|connectionpool.<datasourceName>.freeConnections
|vendor:connectionpool_<dataSourceName>_free_connections
|Gauge
|connectionpool.freeConnections{datasource=<datasourceName>}
|vendor_connectionpool_freeConnections{datasource=<dataSourceName>}
|Gauge

|connectionPool.<datasourceName>.inUseTime.total
|vendor:connectionpool_<dataSourceName>_in_use_time_total_seconds
|Gauge
|connectionPool.inUseTime.total{datasource=<datasourceName>}
|vendor_connectionpool_inUseTime_total_seconds{datasource=<dataSourceName>}
|Gauge

|connectionpool.<datasourceName>.managedConnections
|vendor:connectionpool_<dataSourceName>_managed_connections
|Gauge
|connectionpool.managedConnections{datasource=<datasourceName>}
|vendor_connectionpool_managedConnections{datasource=<dataSourceName>}
|Gauge

|connectionpool.<datasourceName>.queuedRequests.total
|vendor:connectionpool_<dataSourceName>_queued_requests_total
|Counter
|connectionpool.queuedRequests.total{datasource=<datasourceName>}
|vendor_connectionpool_queuedRequests_total{datasource=<dataSourceName>}
|Counter

|connectionPool.<datasourceName>.usedConnections.total
|vendor:connectionpool_<dataSourceName>_used_connections_total
|Counter
|connectionPool.usedConnections.total{datasource=<datasourceName>}
|vendor_connectionpool_usedConnections_total{datasource=<dataSourceName>}
|Counter

|connectionpool.<datasourceName>.waitTime.total
|vendor:connectionpool_<dataSourceName>_wait_time_total_seconds
|Gauge
|connectionpool.waitTime.total{datasource=<datasourceName>}
|vendor_connectionpool_waitTime_total_seconds{datasource=<dataSourceName>}
|Gauge

|cpu.availableProcessors
|base:cpu_available_processors
|Gauge
|cpu.availableProcessors
|base_cpu_availableProcessors
|Gauge

|cpu.processCpuLoad
|base:cpu_process_cpu_load_percent
|Gauge
|cpu.processCpuLoad
|base_cpu_processCpuLoad_percent
|Gauge

|cpu.systemLoadAverage
|base:cpu_system_load_average
|Gauge
|cpu.systemLoadAverage
|base_cpu_systemLoadAverage
|Gauge

|ft.<name>.bulkhead.callsAccepted.total
|application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_calls_accepted_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.bulkhead.callsAccepted.total
|application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_callsAccepted_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.bulkhead.callsRejected.total
|application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_calls_rejected_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.bulkhead.callsRejected.total
|application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_callsRejected_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.bulkhead.concurrentExecutions
|application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_concurrent_executions
|Gauge<long>
|ft.<name>.bulkhead.concurrentExecutions
|application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_concurrentExecutions
|Gauge<long>

|ft.<name>.bulkhead.executionDuration
|application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_execution_duration_mean_seconds
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_execution_duration_max_seconds
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_execution_duration_min_seconds
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_execution_duration_stddev_seconds
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_execution_duration_seconds_count
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_execution_duration_seconds{quantile="0.5"}
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_execution_duration_seconds{quantile="0.75"}
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_execution_duration_seconds{quantile="0.95"}
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_execution_duration_seconds{quantile="0.98"}
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_execution_duration_seconds{quantile="0.99"}
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_execution_duration_seconds{quantile="0.999"}
|Histogram
|ft.<name>.bulkhead.executionDuration
|application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_executionDuration_mean_seconds / (seconds)
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_executionDuration_max_seconds
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_executionDuration_min_seconds
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_executionDuration_stddev_seconds
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_executionDuration_seconds_count
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_executionDuration_seconds{quantile="0.5"}
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_executionDuration_seconds{quantile="0.75"}
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_executionDuration_seconds{quantile="0.95"}
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_executionDuration_seconds{quantile="0.98"}
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_executionDuration_seconds{quantile="0.99"}
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_executionDuration_seconds{quantile="0.999"}
|Histogram

|ft.<name>.bulkhead.waiting.duration
|application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_waiting_duration_mean_seconds
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_waiting_duration_max_seconds
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_waiting_duration_min_seconds
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_waiting_duration_stddev_seconds
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_waiting_duration_seconds_count
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_waiting_duration_seconds{quantile="0.5"}
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_waiting_duration_seconds{quantile="0.75"}
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_waiting_duration_seconds{quantile="0.95"}
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_waiting_duration_seconds{quantile="0.98"}
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_waiting_duration_seconds{quantile="0.99"}
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_waiting_duration_seconds{quantile="0.999"}
|Histogram
|ft.<name>.bulkhead.waiting.duration
|application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_waitingDuration_mean_seconds / (seconds)
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_waitingDuration_max_seconds
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_waitingDuration_min_seconds
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_waitingDuration_stddev_seconds
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_waitingDuration_seconds_count
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_waitingDuration_seconds{quantile="0.5"}
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_waitingDuration_seconds{quantile="0.75"}
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_waitingDuration_seconds{quantile="0.95"}
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_waitingDuration_seconds{quantile="0.98"}
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_waitingDuration_seconds{quantile="0.99"}
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_waitingDuration_seconds{quantile="0.999"}
|Histogram

|ft.<name>.bulkhead.waitingQueue.population
|application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_waiting_queue_population
|Gauge<long>
|ft.<name>.bulkhead.waitingQueue.population
|application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_waitingQueue_population
|Gauge<long>

|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.callsFailed.total
|application:ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_calls_failed_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.callsFailed.total
|application_ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_callsFailed_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.callsPrevented.total
|application:ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_calls_prevented_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.callsPrevented.total
|application_ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_callsPrevented_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.callsSucceeded.total
|application:ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_calls_succeeded_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.callsSucceeded.total
|application_ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_callsSucceeded_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.closed.total
|application:ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_closed_total
|Gauge<long>
|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.closed.total
|application_ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_closed_total
|Gauge<long>

|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.halfOpen.total
|application:ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_half_open_total
|Gauge<long>
|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.halfOpen.total
|application_ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_halfOpen_total
|Gauge<long>

|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.open.total
|application:ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_open_total
|Gauge<long>
|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.open.total
|application_ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_open_total
|Gauge<long>

|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.opened.total
|application:ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_opened_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.opened.total
|application_ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_opened_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.fallback.calls.total
|application:ft_<name>_fallback_calls_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.fallback.calls.total
|application_ft_<name>_fallback_calls_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.invocations.failed.total
|application:ft_<name>_invocations_failed_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.invocations.failed.total
|application_ft_<name>_invocations_failed_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.invocations.total
|application:ft_<name>_invocations_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.invocations.total
|application_ft_<name>_invocations_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.retry.callsFailed.total
|application:ft_<name>_retry_calls_failed_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.retry.callsFailed.total
|application_ft_<name>_retry_callsFailed_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.retry.callsSucceededNotRetried.total
|application:ft_<name>_retry_calls_succeeded_not_retried_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.retry.callsSucceededNotRetried.total
|application_ft_<name>_retry_callsSucceededNotRetried_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.retry.callsSucceededRetried.total
|application:ft_<name>_retry_calls_succeeded_retried_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.retry.callsSucceededRetried.total
|application_ft_<name>_retry_callsSucceededRetried_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.retry.retries.total
|application:ft_<name>_retry_retries_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.retry.retries.total
|application_ft_<name>_retry_retries_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.timeout.callsNotTimedOut.total
|application:ft_<name>_timeout_calls_not_timed_out_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.timeout.callsNotTimedOut.total
|application_ft_<name>_timeout_callsNotTimedOut_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.timeout.callsTimedOut.total
|application:ft_<name>_timeout_calls_timed_out_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.timeout.callsTimedOut.total
|application_ft_<name>_timeout_callsTimedOut_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.timeout.executionDuration
|application:ft_<name>_timeout_execution_duration_mean_seconds
 application:ft_<name>_timeout_execution_duration_max_seconds
 application:ft_<name>_timeout_execution_duration_min_seconds
 application:ft_<name>_timeout_execution_duration_stddev_seconds
 application:ft_<name>_timeout_execution_duration_seconds_count
 application:ft_<name>_timeout_execution_duration_seconds{quantile="0.5"}
 application:ft_<name>_timeout_execution_duration_seconds{quantile="0.75"}
 application:ft_<name>_timeout_execution_duration_seconds{quantile="0.95"}
 application:ft_<name>_timeout_execution_duration_seconds{quantile="0.98"}
 application:ft_<name>_timeout_execution_duration_seconds{quantile="0.99"}
 application:ft_<name>_timeout_execution_duration_seconds{quantile="0.999"}
|Histogram
|ft.<name>.timeout.executionDuration
|application_ft_<name>_timeout_executionDuration_mean_seconds / (seconds)
 application_ft_<name>_timeout_executionDuration_max_seconds
 application_ft_<name>_timeout_executionDuration_min_seconds
 application_ft_<name>_timeout_executionDuration_stddev_seconds
 application_ft_<name>_timeout_executionDuration_seconds_count
 application_ft_<name>_timeout_executionDuration_seconds{quantile="0.5"}
 application_ft_<name>_timeout_executionDuration_seconds{quantile="0.75"}
 application_ft_<name>_timeout_executionDuration_seconds{quantile="0.95"}
 application_ft_<name>_timeout_executionDuration_seconds{quantile="0.98"}
 application_ft_<name>_timeout_executionDuration_seconds{quantile="0.99"}
 application_ft_<name>_timeout_executionDuration_seconds{quantile="0.999"}
|Histogram

|gc.<gcType>.time
|base:gc_<gcType>_time_seconds
|Gauge
|gc.time{name=<gcName>}
|base_gc_time_seconds{name="<gcType>"} / (seconds)
|Gauge

|gc.<gcType>.count
|base:gc_<gcType>_count
|Counter
|gc.total{name=<gcName>}
|base_gc_total{name="<gcType>"}
|Counter

|jaxws.client.<endpointName>.checkedApplicationFaults.total
|vendor:jaxws_client_<endpointName>_checked_application_faults_total
|Counter
|jaxws.client.checkedApplicationFaults.total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|vendor_jaxws_client_checkedApplicationFaults_total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|Counter

|jaxws.client.<endpointName>.invocations.total
|vendor:jaxws_client_<endpointName>_invocations_total
|Counter
|jaxws.client.invocations.total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|vendor_jaxws_client_invocations_total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|Counter

|jaxws.client.<endpointName>.logicalRuntimeFaults.total
|vendor:jaxws_client_<endpointName>_logical_runtime_faults_total
|Counter
|jaxws.client.logicalRuntimeFaults.total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|vendor_jaxws_client_logicalRuntimeFaults_total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|Counter

|jaxws.client.<endpointName>.responseTime.total
|vendor:jaxws_client_<endpointName>_response_time_total_seconds
|Gauge
|jaxws.client.responseTime.total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|vendor_jaxws_client_responseTime_total_seconds{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|Gauge

|jaxws.client.<endpointName>.runtimeFaults.total
|vendor:jaxws_client_<endpointName>_runtime_faults_total
|Counter
|jaxws.client.runtimeFaults.total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|vendor_jaxws_client_runtimeFaults_total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|Counter

|jaxws.client.<endpointName>.uncheckedApplicationFaults.total
|vendor:jaxws_client_<endpointName>_unchecked_application_faults_total
|Counter
|jaxws.client.uncheckedApplicationFaults.total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|vendor_jaxws_client_uncheckedApplicationFaults_total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|Counter

|jaxws.server.<endpointName>.checkedApplicationFaults.total
|vendor:jaxws_server_<endpointName>_checked_application_faults_total
|Counter
|jaxws.server.checkedApplicationFaults.total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|vendor_jaxws_server_checkedApplicationFaults_total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|Counter

|jaxws.server.<endpointName>.invocations.total
|vendor:jaxws_server_<endpointName>_invocations_total
|Counter
|jaxws.server.invocations.total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|vendor_jaxws_server_invocations_total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|Counter

|jaxws.server.<endpointName>.logicalRuntimeFaults.total
|vendor:jaxws_server_<endpointName>_logical_runtime_faults_total
|Counter
|jaxws.server.logicalRuntimeFaults.total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|vendor_jaxws_server_logicalRuntimeFaults_total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|Counter

|jaxws.server.<endpointName>.responseTime.total
|vendor:jaxws_server_<endpointName>_response_time_total_seconds
|Gauge
|jaxws.server.responseTime.total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|vendor_jaxws_server_responseTime_total_seconds{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|Gauge

|jaxws.server.<endpointName>.runtimeFaults.total
|vendor:jaxws_server_<endpointName>_runtime_faults_total
|Counter
|jaxws.server.runtimeFaults.total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|vendor_jaxws_server_runtimeFaults_total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|Counter

|jaxws.server.<endpointName>.uncheckedApplicationFaults.total
|vendor:jaxws_server_<endpointName>_unchecked_application_faults_total
|Counter
|jaxws.server.uncheckedApplicationFaults.total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|vendor_jaxws_server_uncheckedApplicationFaults_total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|Counter

|jvm.uptime
|base:jvm_uptime_seconds
|Gauge
|jvm.uptime
|base_jvm_uptime_seconds
|Gauge

|memory.committedHeap
|base:memory_committed_heap_bytes
|Gauge
|memory.committedHeap
|base_memory_committedHeap_bytes
|Gauge

|memory.maxHeap
|base:memory_max_heap_bytes
|Gauge
|memory.maxHeap
|base_memory_maxHeap_bytes
|Gauge

|memory.usedHeap
|base:memory_used_heap_bytes
|Gauge
|memory.usedHeap
|base_memory_usedHeap_bytes
|Gauge

|servlet.<servletName>.request.total
|vendor:servlet_<servletname>_request_total
|Counter
|servlet.request.total{servlet=<servletName>}
|vendor_servlet_request_total{servlet=<servletname>}
|Counter

|servlet.<servletName>.responseTime.total
|vendor:servlet_<servletname>_response_time_total_seconds
|Gauge
|servlet.responseTime.total{servlet=<servletName>}
|vendor_servlet_responseTime_total_seconds / (seconds)
|Gauge

|session.<appName>.activeSessions
|vendor:session_<appName>_active_sessions
|Gauge
|session.activeSessions{appname=<appName>}
|vendor_session_activeSessions{appname=<appName>}
|Gauge

|session.<appName>.create.total
|vendor:session_<appName>_create_total
|Gauge
|session.create.total{appname=<appName>}
|vendor_session_create_total{appname=<appName>}
|Gauge

|session.<appName>.invalidated.total
|vendor:session_<appName>_invalidated_total
|Counter
|session.invalidated.total{appname=<appName>}
|vendor_session_invalidated_total{appname=<appName>}
|Counter

|session.<appName>.invalidatedbyTimeout.total
|vendor:session_<appName>_invalidatedby_timeout_total
|Counter
|session.invalidatedbyTimeout.total{appname=<appName>}
|vendor_session_invalidatedbyTimeout_total{appname=<appName>}
|Counter

|session.<appName>.liveSessions
|vendor:session_<appName>_live_sessions
|Gauge
|session.liveSessions{appname=<appName>}
|vendor_session_liveSessions{appname=<appName>}
|Gauge

|thread.count
|base:thread_count
|Counter
|thread.count
|base_thread_count
|Gauge

|thread.daemon.count
|base:thread_daemon_count
|Counter
|thread.daemon.count
|base_thread_daemon_count
|Gauge

|thread.max.count
|base:thread_max_count
|Counter
|thread.max.count
|base_thread_max_count
|Gauge

|threadPool.<poolName>.activeThreads
|vendor:threadpool_<poolName>_active_threads
|Gauge
|threadpool.activeThreads{pool=<poolName>}
|vendor_threadpool_activeThreads{pool="<poolName>"}
|Gauge

|threadPool.<poolName>.size
|vendor:threadpool_<poolName>_size
|Gauge
|threadpool.size{pool=<poolName>}
|vendor_threadpool_size{pool="<poolName>"}
|Gauge

|===

== See also
* xref:ROOT:metrics-list.adoc[Metrics reference list]
* link:/blog/2019/07/24/microprofile-metrics-migration.html[Migrating applications from MicroProfile Metrics 1.x to MicroProfile Metrics 2.0]
* link:/guides/microprofile-metrics.html[Providing metrics from a microservice]
* xref:ROOT:microservice-observability-metrics.adoc[Microservice observability with metrics]

Commit message:

Add table titles to metrics tables

modules/reference/pages/metrics-1-dif.adoc, after:

// Copyright (c) 2019 IBM Corporation and others.
// Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives
// 4.0 International (CC BY-ND 4.0)
//   https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/4.0/
//
// Contributors:
//     IBM Corporation
//
:page-description:
:seo-title: Differences between MicroProfile Metrics 1.0 and 2.0 - openliberty.io
:seo-description:
:page-layout: general-reference
:page-type: general
= Differences between MicroProfile Metrics 1.0 and 2.0

The xref:ROOT:metrics-list.adoc[metrics reference list] includes all the metrics that are available for Open Liberty.

Some metric names and types changed between MicroProfile Metrics 1.1 and MicroProfile Metrics 2.x, so the following table lists the xref:feature/mpMetrics-2.2.adoc[MicroProfile Metrics 2.2] metric names and the corresponding xref:feature/mpMetrics-1.1.adoc[MicroProfile Metrics 1.1] metric names. It also lists the corresponding Prometheus names and metric types:
{empty} +

.Mapping metrics from MicroProfile Metrics 1.0 to MicroProfile Metrics 2.0
[%header,cols="9,9,2,9,9,2"]
|===

|mpMetrics-1.1 name
|mpMetrics-1.1 Prometheus name(s)
|mpMetrics-1.1 type
|mpMetrics-2.x name
|mpMetrics-2.x Prometheus name(s)
|mpMetrics-2.x type

|classloader.currentLoadedClasses.count
|base:classloader_current_loaded_class_count
|Counter
|classloader.loadedClasses.count
|base_classloader_loadedClasses_count
|Gauge

|classloader.totalLoadedClasses.count
|base:classloader_total_loaded_class_count
|Counter
|classloader.loadedClasses.total
|base_classloader_loadedClasses_total
|Counter

|classloader.totalUnloadedClasses.count
|base:classloader_total_unloaded_class_count
|Counter
|classloader.unloadedClasses.total
|base_classloader_unloadedClasses_total
|Counter

|connectionpool.<datasourceName>.connectionHandles
|vendor:connectionpool_<dataSourceName>_connection_handles
|Gauge
|connectionpool.connectionHandles{datasource=<datasourceName>}
|vendor_connectionpool_connectionHandles{datasource=<dataSourceName>}
|Gauge

|connectionpool.<datasourceName>.create.total
|vendor:connectionpool_<dataSourceName>_create_total
|Counter
|connectionpool.create.total{datasource=<datasourceName>}
|vendor_connectionpool_create_total{datasource=<dataSourceName>}
|Counter

|connectionpool.<datasourceName>.destroy.total
|vendor:connectionpool_<dataSourceName>_destroy_total
|Counter
|connectionpool.destroy.total{datasource=<datasourceName>}
|vendor_connectionpool_destroy_total{datasource=<dataSourceName>}
|Counter

|connectionpool.<datasourceName>.freeConnections
|vendor:connectionpool_<dataSourceName>_free_connections
|Gauge
|connectionpool.freeConnections{datasource=<datasourceName>}
|vendor_connectionpool_freeConnections{datasource=<dataSourceName>}
|Gauge

|connectionPool.<datasourceName>.inUseTime.total
|vendor:connectionpool_<dataSourceName>_in_use_time_total_seconds
|Gauge
|connectionPool.inUseTime.total{datasource=<datasourceName>}
|vendor_connectionpool_inUseTime_total_seconds{datasource=<dataSourceName>}
|Gauge

|connectionpool.<datasourceName>.managedConnections
|vendor:connectionpool_<dataSourceName>_managed_connections
|Gauge
|connectionpool.managedConnections{datasource=<datasourceName>}
|vendor_connectionpool_managedConnections{datasource=<dataSourceName>}
|Gauge

|connectionpool.<datasourceName>.queuedRequests.total
|vendor:connectionpool_<dataSourceName>_queued_requests_total
|Counter
|connectionpool.queuedRequests.total{datasource=<datasourceName>}
|vendor_connectionpool_queuedRequests_total{datasource=<dataSourceName>}
|Counter

|connectionPool.<datasourceName>.usedConnections.total
|vendor:connectionpool_<dataSourceName>_used_connections_total
|Counter
|connectionPool.usedConnections.total{datasource=<datasourceName>}
|vendor_connectionpool_usedConnections_total{datasource=<dataSourceName>}
|Counter

|connectionpool.<datasourceName>.waitTime.total
|vendor:connectionpool_<dataSourceName>_wait_time_total_seconds
|Gauge
|connectionpool.waitTime.total{datasource=<datasourceName>}
|vendor_connectionpool_waitTime_total_seconds{datasource=<dataSourceName>}
|Gauge

|cpu.availableProcessors
|base:cpu_available_processors
|Gauge
|cpu.availableProcessors
|base_cpu_availableProcessors
|Gauge

|cpu.processCpuLoad
|base:cpu_process_cpu_load_percent
|Gauge
|cpu.processCpuLoad
|base_cpu_processCpuLoad_percent
|Gauge

|cpu.systemLoadAverage
|base:cpu_system_load_average
|Gauge
|cpu.systemLoadAverage
|base_cpu_systemLoadAverage
|Gauge

|ft.<name>.bulkhead.callsAccepted.total
|application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_calls_accepted_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.bulkhead.callsAccepted.total
|application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_callsAccepted_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.bulkhead.callsRejected.total
|application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_calls_rejected_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.bulkhead.callsRejected.total
|application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_callsRejected_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.bulkhead.concurrentExecutions
|application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_concurrent_executions
|Gauge<long>
|ft.<name>.bulkhead.concurrentExecutions
|application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_concurrentExecutions
|Gauge<long>

|ft.<name>.bulkhead.executionDuration
|application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_execution_duration_mean_seconds
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_execution_duration_max_seconds
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_execution_duration_min_seconds
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_execution_duration_stddev_seconds
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_execution_duration_seconds_count
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_execution_duration_seconds{quantile="0.5"}
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_execution_duration_seconds{quantile="0.75"}
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_execution_duration_seconds{quantile="0.95"}
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_execution_duration_seconds{quantile="0.98"}
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_execution_duration_seconds{quantile="0.99"}
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_execution_duration_seconds{quantile="0.999"}
|Histogram
|ft.<name>.bulkhead.executionDuration
|application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_executionDuration_mean_seconds / (seconds)
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_executionDuration_max_seconds
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_executionDuration_min_seconds
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_executionDuration_stddev_seconds
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_executionDuration_seconds_count
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_executionDuration_seconds{quantile="0.5"}
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_executionDuration_seconds{quantile="0.75"}
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_executionDuration_seconds{quantile="0.95"}
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_executionDuration_seconds{quantile="0.98"}
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_executionDuration_seconds{quantile="0.99"}
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_executionDuration_seconds{quantile="0.999"}
|Histogram

|ft.<name>.bulkhead.waiting.duration
|application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_waiting_duration_mean_seconds
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_waiting_duration_max_seconds
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_waiting_duration_min_seconds
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_waiting_duration_stddev_seconds
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_waiting_duration_seconds_count
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_waiting_duration_seconds{quantile="0.5"}
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_waiting_duration_seconds{quantile="0.75"}
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_waiting_duration_seconds{quantile="0.95"}
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_waiting_duration_seconds{quantile="0.98"}
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_waiting_duration_seconds{quantile="0.99"}
 application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_waiting_duration_seconds{quantile="0.999"}
|Histogram
|ft.<name>.bulkhead.waiting.duration
|application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_waitingDuration_mean_seconds / (seconds)
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_waitingDuration_max_seconds
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_waitingDuration_min_seconds
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_waitingDuration_stddev_seconds
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_waitingDuration_seconds_count
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_waitingDuration_seconds{quantile="0.5"}
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_waitingDuration_seconds{quantile="0.75"}
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_waitingDuration_seconds{quantile="0.95"}
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_waitingDuration_seconds{quantile="0.98"}
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_waitingDuration_seconds{quantile="0.99"}
 application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_waitingDuration_seconds{quantile="0.999"}
|Histogram

|ft.<name>.bulkhead.waitingQueue.population
|application:ft_<name>_bulkhead_waiting_queue_population
|Gauge<long>
|ft.<name>.bulkhead.waitingQueue.population
|application_ft_<name>_bulkhead_waitingQueue_population
|Gauge<long>

|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.callsFailed.total
|application:ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_calls_failed_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.callsFailed.total
|application_ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_callsFailed_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.callsPrevented.total
|application:ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_calls_prevented_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.callsPrevented.total
|application_ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_callsPrevented_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.callsSucceeded.total
|application:ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_calls_succeeded_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.callsSucceeded.total
|application_ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_callsSucceeded_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.closed.total
|application:ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_closed_total
|Gauge<long>
|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.closed.total
|application_ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_closed_total
|Gauge<long>

|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.halfOpen.total
|application:ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_half_open_total
|Gauge<long>
|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.halfOpen.total
|application_ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_halfOpen_total
|Gauge<long>

|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.open.total
|application:ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_open_total
|Gauge<long>
|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.open.total
|application_ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_open_total
|Gauge<long>

|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.opened.total
|application:ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_opened_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.circuitbreaker.opened.total
|application_ft_<name>_circuitbreaker_opened_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.fallback.calls.total
|application:ft_<name>_fallback_calls_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.fallback.calls.total
|application_ft_<name>_fallback_calls_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.invocations.failed.total
|application:ft_<name>_invocations_failed_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.invocations.failed.total
|application_ft_<name>_invocations_failed_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.invocations.total
|application:ft_<name>_invocations_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.invocations.total
|application_ft_<name>_invocations_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.retry.callsFailed.total
|application:ft_<name>_retry_calls_failed_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.retry.callsFailed.total
|application_ft_<name>_retry_callsFailed_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.retry.callsSucceededNotRetried.total
|application:ft_<name>_retry_calls_succeeded_not_retried_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.retry.callsSucceededNotRetried.total
|application_ft_<name>_retry_callsSucceededNotRetried_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.retry.callsSucceededRetried.total
|application:ft_<name>_retry_calls_succeeded_retried_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.retry.callsSucceededRetried.total
|application_ft_<name>_retry_callsSucceededRetried_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.retry.retries.total
|application:ft_<name>_retry_retries_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.retry.retries.total
|application_ft_<name>_retry_retries_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.timeout.callsNotTimedOut.total
|application:ft_<name>_timeout_calls_not_timed_out_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.timeout.callsNotTimedOut.total
|application_ft_<name>_timeout_callsNotTimedOut_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.timeout.callsTimedOut.total
|application:ft_<name>_timeout_calls_timed_out_total
|Counter
|ft.<name>.timeout.callsTimedOut.total
|application_ft_<name>_timeout_callsTimedOut_total
|Counter

|ft.<name>.timeout.executionDuration
|application:ft_<name>_timeout_execution_duration_mean_seconds
 application:ft_<name>_timeout_execution_duration_max_seconds
 application:ft_<name>_timeout_execution_duration_min_seconds
 application:ft_<name>_timeout_execution_duration_stddev_seconds
 application:ft_<name>_timeout_execution_duration_seconds_count
 application:ft_<name>_timeout_execution_duration_seconds{quantile="0.5"}
 application:ft_<name>_timeout_execution_duration_seconds{quantile="0.75"}
 application:ft_<name>_timeout_execution_duration_seconds{quantile="0.95"}
 application:ft_<name>_timeout_execution_duration_seconds{quantile="0.98"}
 application:ft_<name>_timeout_execution_duration_seconds{quantile="0.99"}
 application:ft_<name>_timeout_execution_duration_seconds{quantile="0.999"}
|Histogram
|ft.<name>.timeout.executionDuration
|application_ft_<name>_timeout_executionDuration_mean_seconds / (seconds)
 application_ft_<name>_timeout_executionDuration_max_seconds
 application_ft_<name>_timeout_executionDuration_min_seconds
 application_ft_<name>_timeout_executionDuration_stddev_seconds
 application_ft_<name>_timeout_executionDuration_seconds_count
 application_ft_<name>_timeout_executionDuration_seconds{quantile="0.5"}
 application_ft_<name>_timeout_executionDuration_seconds{quantile="0.75"}
 application_ft_<name>_timeout_executionDuration_seconds{quantile="0.95"}
 application_ft_<name>_timeout_executionDuration_seconds{quantile="0.98"}
 application_ft_<name>_timeout_executionDuration_seconds{quantile="0.99"}
 application_ft_<name>_timeout_executionDuration_seconds{quantile="0.999"}
|Histogram

|gc.<gcType>.time
|base:gc_<gcType>_time_seconds
|Gauge
|gc.time{name=<gcName>}
|base_gc_time_seconds{name="<gcType>"} / (seconds)
|Gauge

|gc.<gcType>.count
|base:gc_<gcType>_count
|Counter
|gc.total{name=<gcName>}
|base_gc_total{name="<gcType>"}
|Counter

|jaxws.client.<endpointName>.checkedApplicationFaults.total
|vendor:jaxws_client_<endpointName>_checked_application_faults_total
|Counter
|jaxws.client.checkedApplicationFaults.total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|vendor_jaxws_client_checkedApplicationFaults_total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|Counter

|jaxws.client.<endpointName>.invocations.total
|vendor:jaxws_client_<endpointName>_invocations_total
|Counter
|jaxws.client.invocations.total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|vendor_jaxws_client_invocations_total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|Counter

|jaxws.client.<endpointName>.logicalRuntimeFaults.total
|vendor:jaxws_client_<endpointName>_logical_runtime_faults_total
|Counter
|jaxws.client.logicalRuntimeFaults.total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|vendor_jaxws_client_logicalRuntimeFaults_total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|Counter

|jaxws.client.<endpointName>.responseTime.total
|vendor:jaxws_client_<endpointName>_response_time_total_seconds
|Gauge
|jaxws.client.responseTime.total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|vendor_jaxws_client_responseTime_total_seconds{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|Gauge

|jaxws.client.<endpointName>.runtimeFaults.total
|vendor:jaxws_client_<endpointName>_runtime_faults_total
|Counter
|jaxws.client.runtimeFaults.total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|vendor_jaxws_client_runtimeFaults_total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|Counter

|jaxws.client.<endpointName>.uncheckedApplicationFaults.total
|vendor:jaxws_client_<endpointName>_unchecked_application_faults_total
|Counter
|jaxws.client.uncheckedApplicationFaults.total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|vendor_jaxws_client_uncheckedApplicationFaults_total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|Counter

|jaxws.server.<endpointName>.checkedApplicationFaults.total
|vendor:jaxws_server_<endpointName>_checked_application_faults_total
|Counter
|jaxws.server.checkedApplicationFaults.total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|vendor_jaxws_server_checkedApplicationFaults_total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|Counter

|jaxws.server.<endpointName>.invocations.total
|vendor:jaxws_server_<endpointName>_invocations_total
|Counter
|jaxws.server.invocations.total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|vendor_jaxws_server_invocations_total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|Counter

|jaxws.server.<endpointName>.logicalRuntimeFaults.total
|vendor:jaxws_server_<endpointName>_logical_runtime_faults_total
|Counter
|jaxws.server.logicalRuntimeFaults.total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|vendor_jaxws_server_logicalRuntimeFaults_total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|Counter

|jaxws.server.<endpointName>.responseTime.total
|vendor:jaxws_server_<endpointName>_response_time_total_seconds
|Gauge
|jaxws.server.responseTime.total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|vendor_jaxws_server_responseTime_total_seconds{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|Gauge

|jaxws.server.<endpointName>.runtimeFaults.total
|vendor:jaxws_server_<endpointName>_runtime_faults_total
|Counter
|jaxws.server.runtimeFaults.total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|vendor_jaxws_server_runtimeFaults_total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|Counter

|jaxws.server.<endpointName>.uncheckedApplicationFaults.total
|vendor:jaxws_server_<endpointName>_unchecked_application_faults_total
|Counter
|jaxws.server.uncheckedApplicationFaults.total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|vendor_jaxws_server_uncheckedApplicationFaults_total{endpoint=<endpointName>}
|Counter

|jvm.uptime
|base:jvm_uptime_seconds
|Gauge
|jvm.uptime
|base_jvm_uptime_seconds
|Gauge

|memory.committedHeap
|base:memory_committed_heap_bytes
|Gauge
|memory.committedHeap
|base_memory_committedHeap_bytes
|Gauge

|memory.maxHeap
|base:memory_max_heap_bytes
|Gauge
|memory.maxHeap
|base_memory_maxHeap_bytes
|Gauge

|memory.usedHeap
|base:memory_used_heap_bytes
|Gauge
|memory.usedHeap
|base_memory_usedHeap_bytes
|Gauge

|servlet.<servletName>.request.total
|vendor:servlet_<servletname>_request_total
|Counter
|servlet.request.total{servlet=<servletName>}
|vendor_servlet_request_total{servlet=<servletname>}
|Counter

|servlet.<servletName>.responseTime.total
|vendor:servlet_<servletname>_response_time_total_seconds
|Gauge
|servlet.responseTime.total{servlet=<servletName>}
|vendor_servlet_responseTime_total_seconds / (seconds)
|Gauge

|session.<appName>.activeSessions
|vendor:session_<appName>_active_sessions
|Gauge
|session.activeSessions{appname=<appName>}
|vendor_session_activeSessions{appname=<appName>}
|Gauge

|session.<appName>.create.total
|vendor:session_<appName>_create_total
|Gauge
|session.create.total{appname=<appName>}
|vendor_session_create_total{appname=<appName>}
|Gauge

|session.<appName>.invalidated.total
|vendor:session_<appName>_invalidated_total
|Counter
|session.invalidated.total{appname=<appName>}
|vendor_session_invalidated_total{appname=<appName>}
|Counter

|session.<appName>.invalidatedbyTimeout.total
|vendor:session_<appName>_invalidatedby_timeout_total
|Counter
|session.invalidatedbyTimeout.total{appname=<appName>}
|vendor_session_invalidatedbyTimeout_total{appname=<appName>}
|Counter

|session.<appName>.liveSessions
|vendor:session_<appName>_live_sessions
|Gauge
|session.liveSessions{appname=<appName>}
|vendor_session_liveSessions{appname=<appName>}
|Gauge

|thread.count
|base:thread_count
|Counter
|thread.count
|base_thread_count
|Gauge

|thread.daemon.count
|base:thread_daemon_count
|Counter
|thread.daemon.count
|base_thread_daemon_count
|Gauge

|thread.max.count
|base:thread_max_count
|Counter
|thread.max.count
|base_thread_max_count
|Gauge

|threadPool.<poolName>.activeThreads
|vendor:threadpool_<poolName>_active_threads
|Gauge
|threadpool.activeThreads{pool=<poolName>}
|vendor_threadpool_activeThreads{pool="<poolName>"}
|Gauge

|threadPool.<poolName>.size
|vendor:threadpool_<poolName>_size
|Gauge
|threadpool.size{pool=<poolName>}
|vendor_threadpool_size{pool="<poolName>"}
|Gauge

|===

== See also
* xref:ROOT:metrics-list.adoc[Metrics reference list]
* link:/blog/2019/07/24/microprofile-metrics-migration.html[Migrating applications from MicroProfile Metrics 1.x to MicroProfile Metrics 2.0]
* link:/guides/microprofile-metrics.html[Providing metrics from a microservice]
* xref:ROOT:microservice-observability-metrics.adoc[Microservice observability with metrics]
